NOTES. = 133

12. ltaque . . . vocitatus est: this was chiefly because it and
ν Andocides played leading parts in a suit-atlaw in reference to
this mutilation. He did not erect it himself, but one of the ten
Attio tribes had done so. The Athenians banished Andocides,
believing he was connected with the outrage.

13. hbe: subject accus. of esse iactum.

13. appirt'tret: the remainder of the clause is subject of this
verb.

14. quae . . . pertineret: having to do wilh a matter nol of
private but os public concern ,⁴ the subjunctive shows it to be
given as the thought of the people. Pericles established a corn·
plete democracy‚ and there were clubs formed at once which con-
stantly labored for its overthrow.

16. multitudini: populace.

16. qua: some ,¹ the indefinite nom. sing. fem.

16. repentina: an adj. wit‘h vis; trans. as an adv. with ex·
sisteret.

17. quae . . . opprimeret: the readiness of the Athenians to
think so, was due to their habitual state of mind ς cfi the tense
of extimescebat, p. 8, l. 1¹3 cs. also Them. 8, 1; Cimon 3, 1.

18. hoc: ἐι, the forming of a conspiracy to overthrow the
democracy.

18. convenire in: to be likely of, lit. to come together to.

19. maior: cf. the meaning of magnus, p. 20, l. 1. The com·
parative may be translated too powcrful‚ etc„ sor.

19. privatus: cf urin videbitur posse esse privatus, p. 8, l. 13·

20. devinxerat: (devincit) supply sibi; had laid under obli-
gations to ln'm.

21. plt'lrt'ts etiam: still more, thus often etiam with a com-
parative.

21. operi forensi: assistance in coum the word forensi and
the fact of pleading in court for another Nepos borrows from
Roman affairs. At Rome the law-courts were held in the Forum·
and advocates were allowed; at Athens the law required each
man personally to conduct his own defense.

2 3. prodisset: for prodivisset3 pro (old torm prid) . . . eo, as

below prb (prid) . . . esse=prrirtesee.

 

